 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
14 
3 ZONING REGULATIONS FRAMEWORK 
 Planning Zones 3.1
The Local Planning Area is divided into three Planning Zones i.e. Planning Zo ne A, Planning 
Zone B and Planning Zone C, as per the following spatial extents for the consideration of 
Development Control Regulations for the LPA: 
i. Planning Zone A: consists of the area falling within the Outer Ring Road (ORR). 
ii. Planning Zone B: consists of the area falling outside the ORR and upto the 
Conurbation Limit of RMP 2031. 
iii. Planning Zone C: consists of the area beyond the conurbation limit an d up to the 
Boundary of LPA. 
 Classification of Land into various Land Use Zones 3.2
For the purpose of these regulations, the Local Planning Area of the Bangalore Development 
Authority has been classified into the following Land Use Zones: 
1. Residential (R) 
2. Commercial (C) 
3. Industrial (I) 
4. Transport and Communications (T&C) 
5. Public Utilities (PU) 
6. Public and Semi-public (PSP) 
7. Public and Semi-public – Unclassified (PSP-UC) 
8. Open Spaces (OS) 
9. Agriculture (A) 
Notes: 
i. Uses/ Activities permissible under special circumstances by the Authority in 
different use zones provided that - 
a) All changes are in public interest; 
b) The Proposal for all such changes are published in at least two local daily 
Newspapers (atleast one in Kannada) inviting objections/ suggestions fro m the 
public within a period of not less than fifteen days from the d ate of publishing in 
the Newspaper. 
ii. Roads and Open Spaces are permitted in all use zones. 
iii. Prior to giving permission for religious use and school or college bu ilding in 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
15 
different land use zones either under uses/ activities permissible or p ermissible 
under special circumstances by the Authority, instructions given in Government 
Circular No. Na A E 237 Be Ma Pra 2009 dated 19.09.2009 are to be followed. 
iv. Uses permitted in all the above category of land use zones are subject to sp ace 
standards as given in Table 25. 
 Zonal Boundaries and Interpretation 3.3
i. The exact location and specific regulations applicable for a particular Planning Zone 
or Land Use Zone is to be verified from the Proposed Landuse Plans as detailed in the 
Planning District Maps. The Planning Zone or Land Use Zone Boundary is u sually a 
feature such as road, valley, village boundary etc and includes the immedi ate inner 
edge of the area. 
ii. Certain restrictions imposed by Competent Authorities are to be maintained as 
͞ďuffeƌs͟ foƌ ǀaƌious eĐo -sensitive zones such as Arkavathi, TG Halli, Bannergatta 
National Park/ Forest, Protected/ Reserved Forest, etc and water bodies such as 
Lakes/Streams/ Drains which are marked on the proposed land use plans. In 
addition, any other notifications or directions and applicable buf fers which may be 
issued by the Competent Authority from time to time for such eco-sensiti ve areas 
shall become applicable. 
iii. The necessary NOCs with regard to the clearance/ buffer as applicable in case o f 
Defence Establishments (within 100m from the boundary of such establi shment 
notified under Works of Defence Act, 1903 and as amended from time to time ), Oil 
and Gas Depots/ Pipelines shall be obtained by the applicant from the concerned 
agency, wherever applicable, as per the provisions of the concerned agency. Th e 
same requirements shall become applicable for any new utilities/ infrastructure lines 
implemented over the Plan period. 
iv. The Special Areas of Interventions such as Special Development Zones, ToD Zones, 
Redevelopment Areas, Heritage Areas and Precincts, Station/ Transit Area 
Improvement, Junction Improvements, shown in RMP 2031 refer to indicative area 
in the city that need to be dealt with detailed action plan s and they serve as mere 
informative tool on the plans. 
v. Generally in case of uncertainty/discrepancy with regard to the planning zone or 
land use zone boundary or their interpretation, alignment of the existing road, B 
Kharab such as pathways/ cart track, and Stream/ Halla marked on the master pl an, 
it shall be referred to the Authority for the final decision. Based on th e decision of 
the Authority with regard to resolution of such discrepancies, the l and use zone of 
the adjacent shall be applicable for such land. 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
16 
 Land Use Zone Categorisation 3.4
i. The various Use Zones have been further categorised based on the nature and 
intensity of use permitted in a particular category of Use Zone in a hierarchical 
manner. 
ii. The various categories under each Land Use Zone include: 
(a) Residential Use Zone: R 
(b) Commercial Use Zone: Category C-1 to C-5 
(c) Industrial Use Zone: Category I-1 to I-4 
(d) Transportation and Communication Use Zone: Category T-1 to T-4 
(e) Public and Semi-public Use Zone: Category PSP-1 to PSP-4 
(f) Public Utilities Use Zone: PU- the Public Utilities are allowed in all Use Zones 
subject to space standards and necessary statutory clearances. 
For example, C-4 – indicates C=Commercial and 4 th order within the Use Zone. The 
C-4 list includes all uses/activities permissible specific to C-4 and the lower order 
uses C-3, C-2 and C-1 permissible unless specifically mentioned. 
iii. Though the various uses/ activities are listed, the corresponding space s tandards 
for buildings/ uses are to be referred as given in Table- 25. The three main 
parameters are planning zone, minimum size of plot and minimum width of the 
existing road. 
 
 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
17 
4 GENERAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL LAND USE AND 
PLANNING ZONES 
This section of the Zoning Regulations covers the aspects that would be applicable for all the 
land uses and planning zones unless otherwise specified. The aspects covered include 
landuse, means of access, relinquishment of land for road, sub-division , amalgamation, 
bifurcation, setback, FAR, ground coverage, height, buildings, parking, TDR etc. 
 Land Use 4.1
i. All permissions accorded by BDA or Government prior to these regulations coming 
into force shall be treated as conforming uses irrespective of th e classification made 
in the Revised Master Plan 2031. This is to be allowed on a case by case basis only. 
ii. For change of land use under section 14- A or under section 69 of KTCP Act 1961 to 
Non-Residential use, the minimum existing road width shall be 12.20 m. The change 
of land use approved by Government/ Authority prior to notification of these 
regulations under RMP-2031 shall remain valid irrespective of any change in th ese 
regulations. 
iii. In case of prohibited areas/ areas of special control (i.e., around certain monuments/ 
critical/security installations/buildings, forests, eco-sensitive zones, NGT buffers) 
even if the land use is designated in the proposals, the regulations for the prohibited 
area zone prevails. 
iv. Before permitting any uses permissible under special circumstances, the authority 
shall publish the proposals calling for public objections in at least two leading local 
daily newspapers giving stipulated time of fifteen days. The objectio ns received 
within the stipulated period shall be placed before the authority and the reasons for 
accepting/rejecting the objections shall be recorded in the proceed ings based on 
which the authority may take appropriate decision. 
v. Roads, Parks, playgrounds and open spaces may be permitted in all other land use 
zones as permissible use. 
vi. Different uses permitted in a given zone may be allowed in different floors of the 
building. In such cases, the regulations applicable to the use of the ground floor of 
the building shall apply to the entire building. If there is mixed land use in the ground 
floor, the predominant use (higher area) among them shall be considered as t he use 
of the ground floor. If the area under the two uses on the ground f loor is equal then 
the use on the front side of the plot/ entry side shall be consider ed as the 
predominant use. 
vii. All cases of SEZ approved by Government of India (GOI) shall be considered for 
clearance, irrespective of land use
 classification subject to payment of fees under 
section 18 of KTCP Act, 1961 and Environmental clearances as stipulated by MoEF, 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
18 
KSPCB and CPCB. 
viii. No objection Certificate from the Deputy Commissioner of the district shall be 
obtained before permitting buildings for places of worship vide Government Order 
No.Kan.E.65: MuAaBi:2001, Dt. 24-12-2001. 
ix. If the validity of the previous planning permission/ approval includin g permissible 
renewal has lapsed at the time of coming into force of these regulation s, in such 
cases afresh planning permissions/ approvals shall be taken under these regulations. 
x. In case of buildings that have been permitted lawfully by BBMP or BDA and if 
such structures are in obstruction to the alignment of the proposed roads in 
RMP 2031, such road alignment shall be re-looked into by the authority and 
decision may be taken suitably. 
xi. In case of any error in the demarcation of roads in the Master Plan and t he actual 
location of roads, and/or in exceptional circumstances if the proposed road 
alignment is technically not feasible due to existing topographical cond itions and 
requires amendment in the alignment, the same shall be rectified after veri fication 
by the Authority. The neighboring land use shall be considered for the properties 
abutting such roads in the Master Plan and the Authority shall tak e necessary action 
as per Section 14A of KTCP Act, 1961 for the amendment in the road alignment and 
change of land use in the Master Plan. 
xii. In case of discrepancies in marking the revenue survey number, in such cases the 
revenue records shall prevail, however, the land use as per RMP 2031 shall prevail. 
xiii. The locations of HT Line/ Nallah/ Streams and Lakes shall be as per ground 
conditions or revenue records and any discrepancies shall be rectified after the 
verification by the Authority. In such cases adjoining land use shall be applicable. 
 Means of Access and Minimum Width of Access 4.2
i. Proposed road width shall be as in the Master Plan or as proposed by t he local 
authority. If proposed road width is not specified for any existing road ( i.e. Roads 
which are not proposed for widening) and, then the existing wid th shall be 
considered as proposed width for applying the provisions related to the FAR a nd 
other regulations. 
ii. The centre line of the road fixed by the Authority/local Authorit y shall be considered 
as the centre of the road. The Authority/ local Authority shall fix the cen tre line of all 
roads having proposed width of 12 m and above. If the centre line is n ot fixed by the 
Authority/ local Authority, the centre of the existing road shall be considered as the 
centre of the road. 
iii. While determining the width of the road the distance between the boundaries of 
a road
 including foot path, drains measured at right angles at the center of the plot 
shall be considered. 
iv. The minimum width of means of access shall be governed as per the following 
provisions: 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
19 
(a) The means of access to the plot which would be other than 't hrough public roads 
and street' (dead end road without any cross roads), shall not be of more than 30 
m in length from the public road or street. 
(b) The means of exclusive access which would be other than through public 
roads or streets having more width than the public road or street, but less 
than 30 m in length, then width of the public road or street shall be considered 
for reckoning FAR. 
(c) If the width of such access is of 3.5 m,4.5m and 6m, the F.A.R. and hei ght of 
buildings coming up in such plots shall be regulated according to the width of the 
public road or street for buildings of height upto G+1 fl oors or 7 m, upto G+2 
floors or 10 m and G+3 floors or less than 15 m respectively. For Plots with area of 
above 360 sqm in Planning Zone A and for Plots with area of abo ve 500 sqm in 
Planning Zone B, the minimum width of such access shall not be less than 7.5 m 
for granting the permission for Apartment Building/ Group Housing. 
(d) If the width of access road is less than 3.5 m, then max floor area permitted in 
such cases shall not exceed 150 sqm and 50 sqm in residential and 
commercial zones respectively irrespective of the site area. 
(e) If the length of means of access exceeds 30 m, F.A.R. and height of th e building 
abutting such means of access shall be regulated with reference to the wi dth of 
such means of access subject to a maximum FAR applicable for road to which 
such means of access is connected. 
(f) Access rights needs to be obtained before applying for any sanction/permission 
for development. Documents to support the rights obtained needs to be 
submitted along with the plan. 
(g) In case of sub-divisions/ development plans, the provisions rel ated to minimum 
width of means of access shall be applicable as defined in the regulations for sub-
division/development plan. 
(h) The proposed land use through which means of access is being taken, even if 
owned by applicant, such land use shall be not treated as la nd use for the main 
property. The Land Use as depicted in RMP 2031 shall be applicable to rest of the 
property i.e after the means of access. 
v. No construction may be permitted on plots abutting roads having less than 6m width 
unless the portion of the plot required for road widening up to 6m width or to any 
other required width prescribed in the Master Plan or by the Local Authority is 
surrendered free of cost and can avail the FAR for the surrender portion. 
vi. In case of roads having service roads in addition to the main roads th e width of road 
shall be aggregate width of service roads and main roads for determining FAR and 
height of the building. 
vii. Every proposed road shall meet another road of equal or higher width. Fo r the 
purpose of maintaining the road hierarchy, the Authority may direct the ap plicant(s) 
submitting application for sub-division/ layouts or development plan or any other 
approval to amend/ modify the road width proposed as part of the pl anning 
permission sought to integrate the developments accordingly. 
viii. In case of roads with varying widths, the existing road width shall be the average 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
20 
width considered by taking road width measurements for the varying sections an d 
applied with weighted average for the lengths of varying sections of the road. Such 
road should lead to another road having the same or higher width. However, at any 
point on that road, the width should not be less than 75% of the width considered as 
existing width. If more than 50% of the length of the road with road width less than 
75% of the average width is available, then the regulations applicab le for lower road 
width shall be applicable. 
ix. While developing a land, if for any reason, the road has to be stopped wit hout 
continuation, and then Cul- de-Sac with turn around area of 9 m Radius at the end 
shall be provided. 
 Regulation related to Relinquishment of Land for Roads 4.3
i. In case of plots facing the road proposed for widening, the portion of the plot 
required for road widening as indicated in the Master Plan or as require d by the 
Authority and/ or local authority, shall be handed over to the Autho rity and/ or local 
authority free of cost by a relinquishment deed by the owner of the l and. The owner 
shall be eligible for utilizing the applicable FAR on the land relinquished to the 
Authority on the balance land left with the owner subject to ful filment of other 
regulations. 
ii. If additional portion of the abutting plot is required by the Authority or Local 
Authority for providing free left lanes or splaying/ widening of road intersections or 
for providing additional bus bay lanes, such portion of the plot shall be relinquished 
to the Authority or the Local Authority, as the case may be, before sanction ing 
building plan to such plots. The setback for the plot shall be considered from the 
proposed road line only and not from the boundary of the additi onal portion of the 
plot surrendered for the development of road intersection or bus b ays, as 
mentioned in this clause. 
iii. Where upper floors are permitted over the existing buildings which are sanct ioned 
prior to the coming into force of RMP 2031, the upper floors shall be per mitted only 
after the applicant surrenders the portion of the plot and buildi ng, if required for 
road widening, free of cost by a relinquishment deed. The owner shall be eligible for 
utilizing the applicable FAR on the land relinquished to the Authority on the balance 
land left with the owner subject to fulfilment of other regulations. 
iv. In case of alterations to existing buildings is sanctioned by the Local Aut hority, the 
applicant shall surrender the portion of the plot required for road widening to the 
Local Authority, free of cost, by a Relinquishment Deed, , before sancti on is 
accorded. The owner shall be eligible for utilizing the applicable FAR o n the land 
relinquished to the Authority on the balance land left with th e owner subject to 
fulfilment of other regulations. 
 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
21 
 General Conditions for Planning Permission, Sub-division, Amalgamation and 4.4
Bifurcation of Plot/Site 
i. For according any development/ building permission, the conversion of pl ot/ land 
from Agricultural to Non-agricultural Use under the Revenue Act is mandatory. 
ii. Following the conversion of plot from Agricultural to Non-agricultu ral Use, it shall be 
mandatory for the applicant to obtain the Planning permission from BDA prior to 
applying for the Building Plan Approval irrespective of the size of plot/land. 
iii. The Subdivision shall be governed as per the following regulations: 
(a) The approval of Layout Plan is subject to the condition that the proposal 
satisfies all
 the requirements stipulated under section 17 of K.T.C.P Act, 1961 
and a l so Section 32 of BDA Act, 1976. 
(b) The Authority reserves the right to modify the layout (residential layout or 
non-residential layout) submitted by the applicant / owne r and may impose any 
conditions either from planning point of view or in the i nterest of public 
considering the safety, security, environment and aesthetics. 
(c) The applicant shall be required to adhere to the rules and r egulations framed by 
the government from time to time in this regard. 
iv. The Amalgamation shall be regulated as per the following provisions. 
(a) Ownership of the amalgamated plot could be in single or multipl e names/family 
members/ company. But, amalgamation shall not be considered i f the plots are 
under lease agreement. Also, the plots earmarked for EWS shall not be 
amalgamated except where the Authority/ Local Authority is executi ng the 
scheme for EWS Housing 
(b) Development controls for the amalgamated plot shall be with refe rence to new 
extent and dimensions. 
(c) Properties having different land uses may be amalgamated into single prop erty. 
However, if park and open spaces, roads, public and semi-public, public utilities 
or agricultural zones outside the conurbation area are part of the amalgamated 
property then the uses permitted in these zones only shall be developed i n such 
proportions of the property by actual measuring with respect to Master Plan 
drawings. 
(d) If any portion of the amalgamated properties has been relinquished f ree of cost 
for road widening, then the regulations applicable for the land use of the plot 
abutting the road shall be applicable for the entire amalgamated propert y 
(except for the land uses for the portions falling under agricultu ral zone outside 
the conurbation area, park and open spaces, roads, public and semi-public, 
public utilities) and in other cases of amalgamation, the regulations applicable for 
the lower land use ( The order of land use from lower to higher shall be 
industrial, residential, commercial) among the amalgamated plots shall only b e 
permitted. In such cases, the owner shall be eligible utilizing for t he applicable 
FAR on the land relinquished to the Authority on the balance land left with the 
owner subject to fulfilment of other regulations. 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
22 
(e) Any of the individual plot which was used as part of the Amalgamated p lot for 
becoming eligible for higher FAR shall not be permitted for approval as 
individual plot unless the higher FAR claimed as a result of amalgamati on for 
amalgamated plot is cancelled / withdrawn. 
(f) The plots falling in unauthorized developments shall be considered f or 
amalgamation only if such plots fulfil the requirements of these re gulations as 
well as that of the rules framed under Section 17 of the Act, after amalgamation. 
v. The Bifurcation shall be governed as per the following provisions. 
(a) Bifurcated plot area shall not be less than 50 sqm. 
(b) The bifurcated plot shall have a minimum of 6 m frontage. 
(c) Bifurcated plot shall have a minimum 3 m access. 
(d) In the case of all bifurcations, whether corner site or intermediate site, fro nt 
setback for the resulting site abutting the road shall be the same as that of the 
original site and not that of the subdivided site. 
(e) A Plot/ Site which is a part of the sub division plan/layout/schem e duly approved 
by the Authority may be further bifurcated with prior permission of the Authority 
and the sub-divided plot shall not be less than the prescribed size in (a) above. 
 Setbacks and Distance between Buildings 4.5
Setback all-round the building shall be provided for all floors of the buildin g as prescribed in these 
regulations: 
i. Front setback is essentially with regard to the road width and height of the building 
and side and rear setbacks are with reference to the height of the bu ilding as 
prescribed in Table 1 and 2. 
ii. The maximum height of the building shall not exceed 1.5 times the widt h of abutting 
road plus the front setback, subject to the requirement of front op en space of a 
maximum of 16 m. 
iii. If a building abuts on two or more roads of different widths, the b uilding shall be 
deemed to face upon the road that has higher road width and the h eight of the 
building shall be regulated by the width of that road. 
iv. Front setback should be provided in the remaining plot after deduct ing area for road 
widening as proposed in the Master Plan or as proposed by the BBMP. If the road 
widening is not applicable to the plot, the front setback shall be provided from the 
Front boundary of the plot. 
v. The setbacks shall be provided in the owners plot. Public open spaces o r 
conservancies should not be considered as setbacks. 
vi. The front setback or the building line (as defined in Table 1) wh ichever is higher shall 
be considered as the front setback of the building. Also, no portio n of the building 
shall project, either below the ground or above the ground beyond the building line. 
vii. In the case of corner plots, both the sides facing the road shall be trea ted as front 
side and regulations applied accordingly. 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
23 
viii. In case of plot facing roads on more than one side of the plot, the sides facing roads 
from which approach is provided to the plot shall only be treated as front and other 
sides shall be treated as rear/ sides and the setbacks be applied accordingly and FAR 
should be computed based on the road width which is considered as front. 
ix. When the road widening work is undertaken by the Authority /BBMP to a width 
equal to or less than that prescribed in the Master plan and if any bu ilding has to be 
partly or fully demolished for the road widening, the reconstruction of the remaining 
portion of the building may be permitted abutting the road widenin g line without 
providing front setbacks. However, such reconstructed building shall n ot have plinth 
area more than that of the original plinth area of the building and shall be 
reconstructed only upto the ground and first floor. In case the ow ner intends to 
construct upper floors to such buildings, permission shall be granted on ly if the 
portion of the building constructed in the front setback area is de molished. This 
relaxation shall not be available if the owner of the building is proposing to construct 
a new building as per the provisions of these regulations. This relaxati on shall be 
permitted only during the period of widening work of the partic ular road is 
undertaken by the Authority / BBMP and shall not be available in other situations. 
The above-mentioned relaxation shall be available only if no compensat ion including 
DR is availed for the portion of the building demolished. The provis ion of this clause 
shall be decided by the Authority/ BBMP on a case to case basis .The Autho rity/ 
BBMP shall maintain a register showing details of all such buildings (existing and 
proposed), for which permission has been granted with such relaxation. 
x. For residential buildings sites upto 120 sqm an open staircase may be permitted in 
the side or rear setbacks. 
xi. For Residential building sites upto 60 sqm W.C with of 1 m x 1 .2 m may be 
permissible in rear set back. 
xii. For Residential Buildings when minimum set back of 1 .5 m is left on any side (except 
front), a scooter garage may be permitted on this side set back at the back side 
limiting the depth of the garage to 2.5 m. 
xiii. The following constructions may be permitted within the setback area without 
affecting the required driveway around the building as prescribed in these 
regulation: 
(a) Pump room; 
(b) Generator with outdoor acoustic enclosure (within permissible noise le vel) and 
the height of the exhaust pipe should be 3 m above the neighbouring b uilding 
adjacent to the generator or as prescribed by the Competent Authority; 
(c) Watch man's cubicle not more than 4 sqm at the entry/ exit point and fire 
control room (maximum 4 m x 4 m) (no setback from the boundary); 
(d) Sump tanks below the ground level; 
(e) Sewage Treatment Plant below ground level; 
(f) Solid waste drying yard/ organic waste converter; 
(g) Children's play area; 
(h) Transformer / power substation (no setback from the boundary is required if 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
24 
permissible under the rules of Competent Authority) and other services; 
(i) Any other ancillary utility services provided for the building; 
(j) Open well and bore wells; 
(k) R.C.C. ramps for vehicular movement around the building upto a width of 6 m 
may be permitted to be constructed within the setback for the vehi cular 
movement around the building and for entry to the parking areas with in the 
building; 
(l) Architectural features which are not usable for living or storage purposes without 
hindering the driveway requirements of the buildings prescribed in these 
regulations. Such projections shall not be within 5m height from the ground floor 
level, if such projections are proposed within the driveway area; 
(m) Cantilever porches, steps and corridor to ground floor entry; and 
(n) Car parking in basement structures subject to applicable restrictions. 
 For non-high-rise Buildings items a, b, c, d ,e, f, g and j may be permitted abutting 
the building with 1 m setback from the boundary. 
xiv. Exemptions/Projections in setbacks: 
(a) Every open space provided either interior or exterior shall be kept free from an y 
erection thereon except as provided herein and shall be open to the sky and no 
weather shade or cornice roof more than 0.75 m wide or l/3 rd of open space 
whichever is less shall over hang or project over the said open space. 
(b) A portico/ porch may be permitted in the ground floor within the setb ack. No 
access is permitted to the top of the portico for using it as a sit o ut. The size of 
the cantilever portico is restricted to 3 m x 4.5 m. In case of high ri se buildings 
cantilever portico is allowed as per the Fire Norms. The portico when al lowed 
shall have a clear open space of 1 m from the boundary of the property and i n 
case of high-rise buildings such portico should have a minimum clear height of 
5.5 m and a vehicle passage width of 6 m, if such portico/ porch projects in to the 
mandatory driveway of 6 m. 
(c) The projection of the balcony shall be measured perpendicular to the ou ter wall 
of building up to the outermost edge of the balcony. Cantilever pr ojection of the 
balcony shall be permitted into the prescribed setback area (as per Table 1 or 
Table 2 as applicable) only upto l.2m or l /3 rd of such setback, whichever is less. 
No balcony is allowed at the ground floor level into the prescribed setb acks. In 
case of high-rise buildings, no projection is allowed upto 5.5 m verti cal clearance 
from ground level into the minimum prescribed setback area. 
(d) If more than 25% of the depth of the property is required to be surre ndered for 
road widening, reduction in the rear/ side set back upto 50% shall be allowed for 
the remaining portion of the plot, subject to a minimum of 1.0 m setb ack for 
non-high-rise buildings 
(e) Only 50% of the setback provided in Table 2 shall be required for i ndependent 
MLCP or MLCP attached to any building subject to a minimum of 6 m in case o f 
buildings of more than G+4 floors or 15 m and more height, whichever is l ess. 
Relaxation of setbacks shall be available only for the MLCP portion of the building 
in case of MLCP being attached to any side/s of the building. 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
25 
(f) For garages as prescribed in clauses on garages in this section. 
xv. If the proposed road width is 2 times or more than the existing width of the road, the 
front setbacks shall stand reduced to 50% of the setbacks prescribed in Table 2 for 
non-high-rise buildings and 25% for high rise buildings, subject to the minimum 
setback provided as per Table 1. The reduction in front setback shall be applicable 
for the existing structure only, if any, falling along the proposed new roads at the 
time of survey of the alignment. 
xvi. Upto Ground floor and one upper floor buildings, no side setbacks shal l be insisted 
upon only in the case of reconstruction of existing building w here traditional row 
housing type of development exists. 
xvii. In case of irregular plots, except the front setback, the side and rear set backs at any 
critical point shall not be less than 75% of the setbacks prescribed in Table 2 subject 
to a minimum of 6 m for buildings above 15 m height. However, the total set back 
area provided shall not be less than the setback area required by provid ing the 
setback as per Table 1 and Table 2, as applicable. The area of the po rtion of the 
building projected into the required setbacks as per Table 2 shall not be more than 
5% of the total setback area required by providing the setbacks as per Table 1 and 
Table 2, as applicable subject to maximum ground coverage norms applicable for 
respective land uses. 
Illustration 
 
xviii. For more than one building on a given site, the distance between the buildings 
shall be
 1/2 the height of the tallest building or 16 m, whichever is lower, between 
the buildings under consideration. 
xix. In case, two or more buildings with different heights are proposed on a single site, 
then setbacks shall be applied with reference to the tallest building. 
xx. In case two or more structures are connected, these shall be trea ted as single 
building/ block only if atleast one third of the width of any one structure on the 
connecting side is solidly connected to other structure. Any i nterconnecting link 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
26 
between the structures through connecting corridor only sh all not be treated as a 
single building/ block, and the provisions related to d istance between the buildings 
shall be applicable in such cases. 
 
Table 1: Minimum Front setbacks for all types of buildings with respect to road width 
Sl. no. Road width (m) Minimum Front 
Setback (m) 
Building line from 
Centre of road (m) 
1 6.0 1.0 4.0 
2 7.5 1.0 4.75 
3 9.0 1.75 6.25 
4 12.0 2.0 8.0 
5 15.0 2.5 10.0 
6 18.0 3.5 12.5 
7 24.0 3.5 15.5 
8 30.0 4.0 19.0 
9 45.0 6.0 28.5 
10 60.0 6.0 36.0 
 
 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
27 
Table 2: Minimum Setbacks for All Types of Building (Except Industrial Buildings) with 
respect to the Height of the Buildings 
Sl.
no 
Max. No. 
of floors 
Height of Buildings 
(m) 
Plot Area (sqm) 
Minimum set backs 
Front(m) Rear and 
Sides(m) 
1 G+1 
Below 9.5 
Upto 60 1.0 0.5 
2 G+1 or 
Stilt+2 
Above 60 upto 120 1.0 1.0 
3 G+2 or 
Stilt+3 
9.5 and below 12.5 Above 120 upto 
240 
2.0 2.0 
4 G+3 or 
Stilt+4 
12.5 and below 15 Above 240 upto 
360 
3.0 3.0 
5 G+4 or 
Stilt+4 
Below 15 Above 360 4.0 4.0 
6 G+5 Above 15 upto 18 6.0 6.0 
7 G+6 Above 18 upto 21 7.0 7.0 
8 G+7 Above 21 upto 24 8.0 8.0 
9 G+8 Above 24 upto 27 9.0 9.0 
10 G+9 Above 27 upto 30 10.0 10.0 
11 G+11 Above 30 upto 36 11.0 11.0 
12 G+13 Above 36 upto 42 12.0 12.0 
13 G+15 Above 42 upto 48 13.0 13.0 
14 G+17 Above 48 upto 54 14.0 14.0 
15 G+19 Above 54 upto 60 15.0 15.0 
16 Above 
G+19 
Above 60 16.0 16.0 
Note: - The number of floors mentioned in Table 2 is excluding Basement Floors. The height of stilt 
floor shall be counted towards the height of the building. 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
28 
 Ground Coverage 4.6
i. The Ground Coverage is the total area covered by building immediately above the 
plinth level. 
ii. The areas under pump house not exceeding 3 sqm, swimming pool, sump tank, 
electric substation/ transformer, generator with enclosure, f ire control room 
(maximum 4 m x 4 m) and security room (2 m x 2 m) if provided outside t he plinth of 
the building for plots of more than 4000 sqm and utilities are n ot considered for the 
coverage. 
iii. The required area for road widening shall be deducted for c onsidering ground 
coverage of the plot. 
iv. The maximum ground coverage for different land uses are covered as p art of 
regulations for respective land uses. 
 Floor Area Ratio (FAR) 4.7
i. The ratio of the Floor Area on all floors of the building, exclud ing the exemptions 
provided under (ii) below, to the plot area is FAR. 
ii. The following constructions are excluded from FAR computation: 
(a) Area reserved for services such as electrical substation/ panel room, generator, 
pump room, AC plant room, solid waste management, fire control room, 
security/CCTV room etc. 
(b) Refuge areas provided in high rise buildings as per fire safety norms 
(c) A separate public toilet block provided in the non-residential complex/ plot. 
(d) Building management/society room with a maximum size of 40 sqm 
(e) Staircase / staircase room 
(f) Architectural features which are not usable for living or other purposes 
(g) Chimneys 
(h) Ventilation ducts and Garbage shafts 
(i) Ducts 
(j) Parking areas including driveways and ramps 
(k) Swimming pools and toilets attached to swimming pools constructed i n open 
yard or in any floor for common use by the residents/ users. 
(l) Overhead tanks 
(m) Escalators 
(n) Lift wells and lift machine room 
(o) Watch man's cubicle not exceeding 4 sqm areas 
(p) Sewerage Treatment Plant as specified by KSPCB and pump rooms. 
iii. When the site does not face the road of required width provided against the plot size 
range, then the FAR applicable to the corresponding width of the roads shall apply. 
iv. Where a plot faces a wider road than the one prescribed against a particular p lot 
size, the FAR shall be restricted only to the limit prescribed for the area of the plot. 

 Revised Master Plan for Bengaluru - 2031 (Draft) 
 
29 
v. Proposed road width shall be as in the Master Plan or as proposed by t he local 
authority. If proposed road width is not specified for any existing road ( i.e. Roads 
which are not proposed for widening), then the existing width shall be considered as 
proposed width for applying the provisions of the FAR and other Regulations. 
vi. FAR shall be calculated for the entire plot area without deducting the portion 
surrendered for road widening, if DR or any other form of compensation is not 
claimed / availed for the portion of the plot surrendered for road widening. 
vii. If a plot abuts two or more roads of different widths, then the FAR for the building 
shall be regulated according to the width of the road from which m ain motorable 
access to the plot is proposed. 
viii. All bus terminals shall be eligible for an FAR as applicable to commercial zo ne. The 
minimum area for the bus terminal shall be 4000 sqm. 
ix. The FAR for respective land uses are covered under sections on regulations for 
residential development and non -residential development . 
x. The FAR has been classified into (a) Base FAR and (b) FAR Allowable against TD R/ any 
other rules (example premium FAR/ purchasable FAR as may be enacted by the 
Government and necessary rules are framed and notified). The sum of these two 
FARs is the maximum allowable FAR and shall be the total FAR that can be consumed 
subject to fulfilment of other regulations, except where specific exemptions are 
provided in these regulations such as in case of areas surrounding Metro Stations. In 
case of projects implemented by the Authority or the BBMP, the total maximum 
allowable FAR shall be considered as a Base FAR. 
 
 Height of Building 4.8
i. Height of the building shall be considered as per the definition prescribed in these 
regulations. 
ii. The following constructions are exempted while calculating the height of building: 
(a) Slabs casted/ structures constructed above the terrace floor exclusively for 
providing services such as AC chiller plants, solar panels, radio antennas, lif t 
machine rooms, overhead tanks and staircase headroom cover slabs (upto a 
maximum height of 3 .5 m), chimneys, parapet walls (upto 1.2 m in height) and 
other architectural features shall not be included in the height of the building. 
(b) The internal open space may be covered on top to prevent rain water from 
entering the building. This construction shall not be considered for the height of 
the building. The height of such structure shall not exceed 2 m. 
(c) For calculating the height limitation prescribed in the vicinity of Aerodromes, the 
overall height of the building including that of the above detail s shall be 
considered. 
iii. The height of buildings and other structures within the BMA shall be within the limits 
prescribed by the various Airport Authorities with different Air Funnel Zones. 